src/libmongoc/doc/mongoc_structured_log_set_max_levels_from_env.rst, before:

:man_page: mongoc_structured_log_set_max_levels_from_env

mongoc_structured_log_set_max_levels_from_env
=============================================

Synopsis
--------

.. code-block:: c

   void
   mongoc_structured_log_set_max_levels_from_env (void)

Sets any maximum log levels requested by environment variables: ``MONGODB_LOG_ALL`` for all components, followed by per-component log levels ``MONGODB_LOG_COMMAND``, ``MONGODB_LOG_CONNECTION``, ``MONGODB_LOG_TOPOLOGY``, and ``MONGODB_LOG_SERVER_SELECTION``.

Expects the value to be recognizable by :symbol:`mongoc_structured_log_get_named_level`.
Parse errors may cause a warning message.

Component levels with no valid environment variable setting will be left unmodified.

Normally this happens automatically during :symbol:`mongoc_init`, and it provides defaults that can be overridden programmatically by calls to :symbol:`mongoc_structured_log_set_max_level_for_component` and :symbol:`mongoc_structured_log_set_max_level_for_all_components`.

For applications that desire the opposite behavior, where environment variables may override programmatic settings, they may call ``mongoc_structured_log_set_max_levels_from_env()`` after calling :symbol:`mongoc_structured_log_set_max_level_for_component` and :symbol:`mongoc_structured_log_set_max_level_for_all_components`.
This will process the environment a second time, allowing it to override customized defaults.

.. seealso::

  | :doc:`structured_log`

Commit message:

allow using and configuring structured logging prior to mongoc_init
Includes an optimization to should_log that combines the init check, the func==NULL early out, and the level check into a single operation.

Might be useful for extending structured log support to early init, if we decide to go that route.

src/libmongoc/doc/mongoc_structured_log_set_max_levels_from_env.rst, after:

:man_page: mongoc_structured_log_set_max_levels_from_env

mongoc_structured_log_set_max_levels_from_env
=============================================

Synopsis
--------

.. code-block:: c

   void
   mongoc_structured_log_set_max_levels_from_env (void)

Sets any maximum log levels requested by environment variables: ``MONGODB_LOG_ALL`` for all components, followed by per-component log levels ``MONGODB_LOG_COMMAND``, ``MONGODB_LOG_CONNECTION``, ``MONGODB_LOG_TOPOLOGY``, and ``MONGODB_LOG_SERVER_SELECTION``.

Expects the value to be recognizable by :symbol:`mongoc_structured_log_get_named_level`.
Parse errors may cause a warning message.

Component levels with no valid environment variable setting will be left unmodified.

Normally this happens automatically when log levels are automatically initialized on first use.
The resulting default values can be overridden programmatically by calls to :symbol:`mongoc_structured_log_set_max_level_for_component` and :symbol:`mongoc_structured_log_set_max_level_for_all_components`.

For applications that desire the opposite behavior, where environment variables may override programmatic settings, they may call ``mongoc_structured_log_set_max_levels_from_env()`` after calling :symbol:`mongoc_structured_log_set_max_level_for_component` and :symbol:`mongoc_structured_log_set_max_level_for_all_components`.
This will process the environment a second time, allowing it to override customized defaults.

.. seealso::

  | :doc:`structured_log`
