src/libmongoc/doc/mongoc_client_pool_set_apm_callbacks.rst, before:

:man_page: mongoc_client_pool_set_apm_callbacks

mongoc_client_pool_set_apm_callbacks()
======================================

Synopsis
--------

.. code-block:: c

  bool
  mongoc_client_pool_set_apm_callbacks (mongoc_client_pool_t *pool,
                                        mongoc_apm_callbacks_t *callbacks,
                                        void *context);

Register a set of callbacks to receive Application Performance Monitoring events.

The ``callbacks`` are copied by the pool and may be destroyed at any time after.  If a ``context`` is passed, it is the application's responsibility to ensure ``context`` remains valid for the lifetime of the pool.

Parameters
----------

* ``pool``: A :symbol:`mongoc_client_pool_t`.
* ``callbacks``: A :symbol:`mongoc_apm_callbacks_t`.
* ``context``: Optional pointer to include with each event notification.

Returns
-------

Returns true on success. If any arguments are invalid, returns false and logs an error.

.. include:: includes/mongoc_client_pool_call_once.txt

.. seealso::

  | :doc:`Introduction to Application Performance Monitoring <application-performance-monitoring>`

Commit message:

CDRIVER-3775 mongoc_structured_log (#1795)
This is an initial implementation of "structured logging" for libmongoc.

* Partially addresses CDRIVER-3775 (Easier debugging with standardized logging)
* Partially addresses CDRIVER-4485 (Logging Specification); prose tests and truncation TBD
* Partially addresses CDRIVER-4486 (Command logging and monitoring); prose tests and truncation TBD
* Addresses CDRIVER-4535 (Misc updates to logging spec)
* Addresses CDRIVER-4553 (Command logging test covering unacknowledged write)
* Unified test runner support for: createEntities, observeLogMessages, waitForEvent, $$matchAsDocument, $$matchAsRoot
* Add serverDescriptionChangedEvent to the unified test runner and unify its two event serialization systems
* Private serialization utilities, *_append_contents_to_bson
* Sync unified tests from the command-logging-and-monitoring spec
* bson-dsl support for oid() values
* Private utilities for dealing with zero'ed oids

src/libmongoc/doc/mongoc_client_pool_set_apm_callbacks.rst, after:

:man_page: mongoc_client_pool_set_apm_callbacks

mongoc_client_pool_set_apm_callbacks()
======================================

Synopsis
--------

.. code-block:: c

  bool
  mongoc_client_pool_set_apm_callbacks (mongoc_client_pool_t *pool,
                                        mongoc_apm_callbacks_t *callbacks,
                                        void *context);

Register a set of callbacks to receive Application Performance Monitoring events.

The ``callbacks`` are copied by the pool and may be safely destroyed by the caller after this API call completes.  If a ``context`` is passed, it is the application's responsibility to ensure ``context`` remains valid for the lifetime of the pool.

Parameters
----------

* ``pool``: A :symbol:`mongoc_client_pool_t`.
* ``callbacks``: A :symbol:`mongoc_apm_callbacks_t`.
* ``context``: Optional pointer to include with each event notification.

Returns
-------

Returns true on success. If any arguments are invalid, returns false and logs an error.

.. include:: includes/mongoc_client_pool_call_once.txt

.. seealso::

  | :doc:`Introduction to Application Performance Monitoring <application-performance-monitoring>`
