src/libmongoc/doc/mongoc_client_pool_pop.rst, before:

:man_page: mongoc_client_pool_pop

mongoc_client_pool_pop()
========================

Synopsis
--------

.. code-block:: c

  mongoc_client_t *
  mongoc_client_pool_pop (mongoc_client_pool_t *pool)
     BSON_GNUC_WARN_UNUSED_RESULT;

Retrieve a :symbol:`mongoc_client_t` from the client pool, or create one. The total number of clients that can be created from this pool is limited by the URI option "maxPoolSize", default 100. If this number of clients has been created and all are in use, ``mongoc_client_pool_pop`` blocks until another thread returns a client with :symbol:`mongoc_client_pool_push()`. If the "waitQueueTimeoutMS" URI option was specified with a positive value, then ``mongoc_client_pool_pop`` will return ``NULL`` when the timeout expires.

The returned :symbol:`mongoc_client_t` must be returned to the pool with :symbol:`mongoc_client_pool_push()`.

Parameters
----------

* ``pool``: A :symbol:`mongoc_client_pool_t`.

Returns
-------

A :symbol:`mongoc_client_t`.

.. include:: includes/mongoc_client_pool_thread_safe.txt

Commit message:

CDRIVER-3645 Close operation connections to removed servers (#1618)
* add regression test: check connection counts of servers removed by SRV polling

* prune clients on push

Track last known server IDs in the client pool. Before doing an expensive prune, do a cheaper check to see if server IDs changed.

* test direct topology changes

Servers may be removed from the topology in other scenarios aside from SRV polling (e.g. during SDAM)

* document expected use of pop/push

---------

Co-authored-by: Ezra Chung <88335979+eramongodb@users.noreply.github.com>

src/libmongoc/doc/mongoc_client_pool_pop.rst, after:

:man_page: mongoc_client_pool_pop

mongoc_client_pool_pop()
========================

Synopsis
--------

.. code-block:: c

  mongoc_client_t *
  mongoc_client_pool_pop (mongoc_client_pool_t *pool)
     BSON_GNUC_WARN_UNUSED_RESULT;

Retrieve a :symbol:`mongoc_client_t` from the client pool, or create one. The total number of clients that can be created from this pool is limited by the URI option "maxPoolSize", default 100. If this number of clients has been created and all are in use, ``mongoc_client_pool_pop`` blocks until another thread returns a client with :symbol:`mongoc_client_pool_push()`. If the "waitQueueTimeoutMS" URI option was specified with a positive value, then ``mongoc_client_pool_pop`` will return ``NULL`` when the timeout expires.

The returned :symbol:`mongoc_client_t` must be returned to the pool with :symbol:`mongoc_client_pool_push()`.

.. note::

   Return a checked out :symbol:`mongoc_client_t` to the pool with :symbol:`mongoc_client_pool_push` quickly to encourage reuse of clients among threads.

Parameters
----------

* ``pool``: A :symbol:`mongoc_client_pool_t`.

Returns
-------

A :symbol:`mongoc_client_t`.

.. include:: includes/mongoc_client_pool_thread_safe.txt
