src/libbson/doc/bson_string_t.rst, before:

:man_page: bson_string_t

bson_string_t
=============

String Building Abstraction

Synopsis
--------

.. code-block:: c

  #include <bson/bson.h>

  typedef struct {
     char *str;
     uint32_t len;
     uint32_t alloc;
  } bson_string_t;

Description
-----------

:symbol:`bson_string_t` is an abstraction for building strings. As chunks are added to the string, allocations are performed in powers of two.

This API is useful if you need to build UTF-8 encoded strings.

.. only:: html

  Functions
  ---------

  .. toctree::
    :titlesonly:
    :maxdepth: 1

    bson_string_append
    bson_string_append_c
    bson_string_append_printf
    bson_string_append_unichar
    bson_string_free
    bson_string_new
    bson_string_truncate

Example
-------

.. code-block:: c

  bson_string_t *str;

  str = bson_string_new (NULL);
  bson_string_append_printf (str, "%d %s %f\n", 0, "some string", 0.123);
  printf ("%s\n", str->str);

  bson_string_free (str, true);

.. tip::

  You can call :symbol:`bson_string_free()` with ``false`` if you would like to take ownership of ``str->str``. Some APIs that do this might call ``return bson_string_free (str, false);`` after building the string.

Commit message:

CDRIVER-5697 deprecate `bson_string_t` (#1745)
* deprecate `bson_string_t` and associated functions

* add private header mcd-string.h

To wrap `bson_string_t` with non-deprecated API. Intended to be used internally to avoid deprecation warnings.

* replace use of `bson_string_t` with `mcd_string_t`

Keep include of `bson-string.h` in`bson.h` to preserve public include.

Exclude `test-string.c` to preserve testing public API. Deprecation warnings are ignored in tests.

* update libmongocrypt used for test

Use commit of libmongocrypt that removes use of `bson_string_t` to avoid deprecation warnings in libmongocrypt build

* relocate `BEGIN_IGNORE_DEPRECATIONS` to `common-macros-private.h`

src/libbson/doc/bson_string_t.rst, after:

:man_page: bson_string_t

bson_string_t
=============

.. warning::
   .. deprecated:: 1.29.0

      This struct is deprecated and should not be used in new code.

String Building Abstraction

Synopsis
--------

.. code-block:: c

  #include <bson/bson.h>

  typedef struct {
     char *str;
     uint32_t len;
     uint32_t alloc;
  } bson_string_t;

Description
-----------

:symbol:`bson_string_t` is an abstraction for building strings. As chunks are added to the string, allocations are performed in powers of two.

This API is useful if you need to build UTF-8 encoded strings.

.. only:: html

  Functions
  ---------

  .. toctree::
    :titlesonly:
    :maxdepth: 1

    bson_string_append
    bson_string_append_c
    bson_string_append_printf
    bson_string_append_unichar
    bson_string_free
    bson_string_new
    bson_string_truncate

Example
-------

.. code-block:: c

  bson_string_t *str;

  str = bson_string_new (NULL);
  bson_string_append_printf (str, "%d %s %f\n", 0, "some string", 0.123);
  printf ("%s\n", str->str);

  bson_string_free (str, true);

.. tip::

  You can call :symbol:`bson_string_free()` with ``false`` if you would like to take ownership of ``str->str``. Some APIs that do this might call ``return bson_string_free (str, false);`` after building the string.
